

The Rules!

1. You have until night fall to gather supplies. Spend your time wisely! Once night hits you MUST venture into the hole, never to return to the surface again!

2. You can gather any resource you find top side, but venturing into any other caves (for iron mostly) is not allowed. Sunlit caves are allowed.

3. You must not break ground on the 404 gravel until you are ready to enter the cave. You are intended to be finding shelter for the first night, digging the gravel, and discovering the cave. Once you break ground on the gravel, you must enter the cave.

4. Once you enter the cave, you must descend all the way to the bottom! The waterfall has swept you into the deepest parts of the cave.

5. No torches! If you whine about why you can't use torches, just STFU. Real men use lava for light anyway! :Lava: (Redstone torches, jack-o-lanterns, and flint n' steel are OK!)

6. Survive and thrive. Don't simply build a wall around yourself. Explore. Build. Progress! Your 'score' will be based on what you accomplished, not simply how long you survived.

7. Only mine ores that are is visible. If you see an ore, you can mine it and the blocks around it to see if you got all of it. No branch/strip mining allowed. You are spelunking/surviving here, not at your 9 to 5 mining job.

8. Difficulty must be either Normal or Hard. If you play on hard you could get a 1.5x score multiplier.

9. 1 life. If you die the challenge is over. Start a new 404 world if you want to try again.

10. No inventory edits or 'cheating' of any kind. Using F3 to see mob locations is considered cheating as well.




Achievements!

You can gain points and achievements for many things during the challenge (even during the day time!). Take video/screenshots as proof when submitting your score. Score submissions without proof, although still wanted, will not be considered for a high score ranking. Mob kills are the only achievements that are counted every time. All other achievements are earned only the first time you do them.

Mob kills: (Player must actively kill each mob. Placing lava/sand/gravel/cactus to kill counts, but only for the first mob it kills):
Zombies: .5 each
Skeletons: 1 each
Spiders: 1 each
Creepers: 2 each
Zombie Pigmen: 3 each
Ghast: 6 each

Collection:

Place on the ground, 1 block of:
Iron: 2
Gold: 5
Lapis Lazuli: 5
Diamond: 20
All 4 blocks in the same shot: +25

Creeper blowing up directly next to all 4 blocks (please capture with video!): +50!!!

Gather:
3 Pumpkin: 2
32 Cacti: 4
20 Sugar Cane: 4
1 Obsidian: 5

Crafting:

Complete leather armor: 10
Complete iron armor: 10
Complete gold armor: 20
Complete diamond armor: 50
Bread: 4
Jack-O-Lantern: 2
Bow + 64 arrows: 10
32 glass: 5
Place 1 glowstone in Overworld: 10
8 different colored wool: 10
12 different colored wool: 15 (25 pts total)

Building:

Structure using at least 20 bricks: 10
Nether Portal: 15
Farm (10 wheat, 5 reeds): 10
Working double door (redstone, swings correctly on activation): 15
Mob spawner trap: 20

Bonus achievements: (must have 25+ points already to unlock)

Dungeon Runner (never build a shelter that mobs cant get into) 15 points
Don't Need No Stinking Armor! (never wear armor) 15 points
Chuck Norris has nothing on me! (play on hard difficulty) +0.5x score bonus
